# Business_Analytics_Airbnb_Price_Prediction
Airbnb provides a platform for over 2,500,000 hosts to accommodate guests with short-term lodging and tourism-related activities, and it generates revenue from service fees of bookings. More specifically, they charge 10% of the booking price from hosts as commission for using Airbnb as a platform. Therefore, Airbnb’s profits are highly related to the pricing of the listings. However, Airbnb’s hosts aren’t professional hoteliers. They don’t have sufficient experience to appropriately price their listings. In order to address this business problem, data science methods can be used to develop pricing algorithms to provide guidance for hosts. This can be done by exploring available data of current listings with clustering techniques, identifying attributes that affect price and building models to predict the prices for various Airbnb listings. One of the use case scenarios is creating a price recommendation system for hosts in order to propel appropriate timely pricing. 

The data was obtained from Inside Airbnb, an independent, non-commercial website not affiliated with Airbnb that provides data on how Airbnb is being used in over 100 cities around the world. The dataset is compiled by Inside Airbnb using public information such as reviews and availability calendar on Airbnb website. The dataset provides information on various aspects of Airbnb listings for the city of New York that would help predict the listing prices. The information obtained from the dataset can be broadly classified into:/n
  •	Description of Listing: Attributes such as neighborhood, city, amenities, types of rooms and property type provide more insights on the listings. /n
  •	Customer Feedback: Attributes such as reviews and customer scores provide information on customer satisfaction for the listings. /n
  •	Reservation Details: Attributes such as cancellation policies, pricing for various time frames and availability provide details on the reservations for the listings. /n
The dataset in total has 48,864 data points, with 106 variables - 105 features (as described in Table 1) and a target numeric variable. 
